the fulton county grand jury say friday an investigation of atlanta 's recent primary election produce `` no evidence '' that any irregularity take place . 
the jury further say in term - end presentment that the city executive committee , which have over - all charge of the election , `` deserve the praise and thank of the city of atlanta '' for the manner in which the election be conduct . 
the september - october term jury have be charge by fulton superior court judge durwood pye to investigate report of possible `` irregularity '' in the hard - fight primary which be win by mayor - nominate ivan allen jr. . 
`` only a relative handful of such report be receive '' , the jury say , `` consider the widespread interest in the election , the number of voter and the size of this city '' . 
the jury say -PRON- do find that many of georgia 's registration and election law `` be outmoded or inadequate and often ambiguous '' . 
-PRON- recommend that fulton legislator act `` to have these law study and revise to the end of modernize and improve -PRON- '' . 
the grand jury comment on a number of other topic , among -PRON- the atlanta and fulton county purchasing department which -PRON- say `` be well operate and follow generally accept practice which inure to the good interest of both government '' . 
merger propose 
however , the jury say -PRON- believe `` these two office should be combine to achieve great efficiency and reduce the cost of administration '' . 
the city purchasing department , the jury say , `` be lack in experienced clerical personnel as a result of city personnel policy '' . 
-PRON- urge that the city `` take step to remedy '' this problem . 
implementation of georgia 's automobile title law be also recommend by the outgoing jury . 
-PRON- urge that the next legislature `` provide enable fund and re - set the effective date so that an orderly implementation of the law may be effect '' . 
the grand jury take a swipe at the state welfare department 's handling of federal fund grant for child welfare service in foster home . 
`` this be one of the major item in the fulton county general assistance program '' , the jury say , but the state welfare department `` have see fit to distribute these fund through the welfare department of all the county in the state with the exception of fulton county , which receive none of this money . 
the juror say -PRON- realize `` a proportionate distribution of these fund may disable this program in -PRON- less populous county '' . 
nevertheless , `` -PRON- feel that in the future fulton county should receive some portion of these available fund '' , the juror say . 
`` failure to do this will continue to place a disproportionate burden '' on fulton taxpayer . 
the jury also comment on the fulton ordinary 's court which have be under fire for -PRON- practice in the appointment of appraiser , guardian and administrator and the awarding of fee and compensation . 
ward protect 
the jury say -PRON- find the court `` have incorporate into -PRON- operating procedure the recommendation '' of two previous grand jury , the atlanta bar association and an interim citizen committee . 
`` these action should serve to protect in fact and in effect the court 's ward from undue cost and -PRON- appoint and elect servant from unmeritorious criticism '' , the jury say . 
regard atlanta 's new multi - million - dollar airport , the jury recommend `` that when the new management take charge January 1 the airport be operate in a manner that will eliminate political influence '' . 
the jury do not elaborate , but -PRON- add that `` there should be periodic surveillance of the pricing practice of the concessionaire for the purpose of keep the price reasonable '' . 
ask jail deputy 
on other matter , the jury recommend that : ( 1 ) 
four additional deputy be employ at the fulton county jail and `` a doctor , medical intern or extern be employ for night and weekend duty at the jail '' . 
( 2 ) 
fulton legislator `` work with city official to pass enable legislation that will permit the establishment of a fair and equitable '' pension plan for city employe . 
the jury praise the administration and operation of the atlanta police department , the fulton tax commissioner 's office , the bellwood and alpharetta prison farm , grady hospital and the fulton health department . 
mayor william b. hartsfield file suit for divorce from -PRON- wife , pearl williams hartsfield , in fulton superior court friday . 
-PRON- petition charge mental cruelty . 
the couple be marry August 2 , 1913 . 
-PRON- have a son , william berry jr. , and a daughter , mrs. j. m. cheshire of griffin . 
attorney for the mayor say that an amicable property settlement have be agree upon . 
the petition list the mayor 's occupation as `` attorney '' and -PRON- age as 71 . 
-PRON- list -PRON- wife 's age as 74 and place of birth as opelika , Alabama . 
the petition say that the couple have not live together as man and wife for more than a year . 
the hartsfield home be at 637 e. pelham rd . aj . 
henry l. bowden be list on the petition as the mayor 's attorney . 
hartsfield have be mayor of atlanta , with exception of one brief interlude , since 1937 . 
-PRON- political career go back to -PRON- election to city council in 1923 . 
the mayor 's present term of office expire January 1 . 
-PRON- will be succeed by ivan allen jr. , who become a candidate in the September 13 primary after mayor hartsfield announce that -PRON- would not run for reelection . 
georgia republicans be get strong encouragement to enter a candidate in the 1962 governor 's race , a top official say wednesday . 
robert snodgrass , state gop chairman , say a meeting hold tuesday night in blue ridge bring enthusiastic response from the audience . 
state party chairman james w. dorsey add that enthusiasm be pick up for a state rally to be hold September 8 in savannah at which newly elect texas sen. john tower will be the featured speaker . 
in the blue ridge meeting , the audience be warn that enter a candidate for governor would force -PRON- to take petition out into voting precinct to obtain the signature of register voter . 
despite the warning , there be a unanimous vote to enter a candidate , accord to republicans who attend . 
when the crowd be ask whether -PRON- want to wait one more term to make the race , -PRON- vote no -- and there be no dissent . 
the large hurdle the republicans would have to face be a state law which say that before make a first race , one of two alternative course must be take : 1 
five per cent of the voter in each county must sign petition request that the republicans be allow to place name of candidate on the general election ballot , or 2 
the republicans must hold a primary under the county unit system -- a system which the party oppose in -PRON- platform . 
sam caldwell , state highway department public relation director , resign tuesday to work for lt . gov. garland byrd 's campaign . 
caldwell 's resignation have be expect for some time . 
-PRON- will be succeed by rob ledford of gainesville , who have be an assistant more than three year . 
when the gubernatorial campaign start , caldwell be expect to become a campaign coordinator for byrd . 
the georgia legislature will wind up -PRON- 1961 session monday and head for home -- where some of the highway bond money -PRON- approve will follow shortly . 
before adjournment monday afternoon , the senate be expect to approve a study of the number of legislator allot to rural and urban area to determine what adjustment should be make . 
gov. vandiver be expect to make the traditional visit to both chamber as -PRON- work toward adjournment . 
vandiver likely will mention the $ 100 million highway bond issue approve earlier in the session as -PRON- first priority item . 
construction bond 
meanwhile , -PRON- be learn the state highway department be very near be ready to issue the first $ 30 million worth of highway reconstruction bond . 
the bond issue will go to the state court for a friendly test suit to test the validity of the act , and then the sale will begin and contract let for repair work on some of georgia 's most heavily travel highway . 
a highway department source say there also be a plan there to issue some $ 3 million to $ 4 million worth of rural roads authority bond for rural road construction work . 
a revolve fund 
the department apparently intend to make the rural roads authority a revolving fund under which new bond would be issue every time a portion of the old one be pay off by tax authority . 
vandiver open -PRON- race for governor in 1958 with a battle in the legislature against the issuance of $ 50 million worth of additional rural road bond propose by then gov. marvin griffin . 
the highway department source tell the constitution , however , that vandiver have not be consult yet about the plan to issue the new rural road bond . 
schley county rep. b. d. pelham will offer a resolution monday in the house to rescind the body 's action of friday in vote -PRON- a $ 10 per day increase in expense allowance . 
pelham say sunday night there be research be do on whether the `` quickie '' vote on the increase can be repeal outright or whether notice would have to first be give that reconsideration of the action would be seek . 
while emphasize that technical detail be not fully work out , pelham say -PRON- resolution would seek to set aside the privilege resolution which the house vote through 87 - 31 . 
a similar resolution pass in the senate by a vote of 29 - 5 . 
as of sunday night , there be no word of a resolution be offer there to rescind the action . 
pelham point out that georgia voter last november reject a constitutional amendment to allow legislator to vote on pay raise for future legislature session . 
a veteran jackson county legislator will ask the georgia house monday to back federal aid to education , something -PRON- have consistently oppose in the past . 
rep. mac barber of commerce be ask the house in a privilege resolution to `` endorse increase federal support for public education , provide that such fund be receive and expend '' as state fund . 
barber , who be in -PRON- 13th year as a legislator , say there `` be some member of -PRON- congressional delegation in washington who would like to see -PRON- ( the resolution ) pass '' . 
but -PRON- add that none of georgia 's congressman specifically ask -PRON- to offer the resolution . 
the resolution , which barber toss into the house hopper friday , will be formally read monday . 
-PRON- say that `` in the event congress do provide this increase in federal fund '' , the state board of education should be direct to `` give priority '' to teacher pay raise . 
colquitt 
-- after a long , hot controversy , miller county have a new school superintendent , elect , as a policeman put -PRON- , in the `` cool election -PRON- ever see in this county '' . 
the new school superintendent be harry davis , a veteran agriculture teacher , who defeat felix bush , a school principal and chairman of the miller county democratic executive committee . 
davis receive 1,119 vote in saturday 's election , and bush get 402 . 
ordinary carey williams , arm with a pistol , stand by at the poll to insure order . 
`` this be the cool , calm election -PRON- ever see '' , colquitt policeman tom williams say . 
`` be at the poll be just like be at church . 
-PRON- do not smell a drop of liquor , and -PRON- do not have a bit of trouble '' . 
the campaign lead to the election be not so quiet , however . 
-PRON- be mark by controversy , anonymous midnight phone call and veil threat of violence . 
the former county school superintendent , george p. callan , shoot -PRON- to death march 18 , four day after -PRON- resign -PRON- post in a dispute with the county school board . 
during the election campaign , both candidate , davis and bush , reportedly receive anonymous telephone call . 
ordinary williams say -PRON- , too , be subject to anonymous call soon after -PRON- schedule the election . 
many local citizen fear that there would be irregularity at the poll , and williams get -PRON- a permit to carry a gun and promise an orderly election . 
sheriff felix tabb say the ordinary apparently make good -PRON- promise . 
`` everything go real smooth '' , the sheriff say . 
`` there be not a bit of trouble '' . 
austin , texas 
-- committee approval of gov. price daniel 's `` abandon property '' act seem certain thursday despite the adamant protest of texas banker . 
daniel personally lead the fight for the measure , which -PRON- have water down considerably since -PRON- rejection by two previous legislatures , in a public hearing before the house committee on revenue and taxation . 
under committee rule , -PRON- go automatically to a subcommittee for one week . 
but question with which committee member taunt banker appear as witness leave little doubt that -PRON- will recommend passage of -PRON- . 
daniel term `` extremely conservative '' -PRON- estimate that -PRON- would produce 17 million dollar to help erase an anticipated deficit of 63 million dollar at the end of the current fiscal year next August 31 . 
-PRON- tell the committee the measure would merely provide mean of enforce the escheat law which have be on the book `` since texas be a republic '' . 
-PRON- permit the state to take over bank account , stock and other personal property of person miss for seven year or more . 
the bill , which daniel say -PRON- draft personally , would force bank , insurance firm , pipeline company and other corporation to report such property to the state treasurer . 
the escheat law can not be enforce now because -PRON- be almost impossible to locate such property , daniel declare . 
dewey lawrence , a tyler lawyer represent the texas bankers association , sound the opposition keynote when -PRON- say -PRON- would force bank to violate -PRON- contractual obligation with depositor and undermine the confidence of bank customer . 
`` if -PRON- destroy confidence in bank , -PRON- do something to the economy '' , -PRON- say . 
`` -PRON- take out of circulation many million of dollar '' . 
rep. charles e. hughes of sherman , sponsor of the bill , say a failure to enact -PRON- would amount `` to make a gift out of the taxpayer ' pocket to bank , insurance and pipeline company '' . 
-PRON- contention be deny by several banker , include scott hudson of sherman , gaynor b. jones of houston , j. b. brady of harlingen and howard cox of austin . 
cox argue that the bill be `` probably unconstitutional '' since , -PRON- say , -PRON- would impair contract . 
-PRON- also complain that not enough notice be give on the hearing , since the bill be introduce only last monday . 
austin , texas 
-- senator unanimously approve thursday the bill of sen. george parkhouse of dallas authorize establishment of day school for the deaf in dallas and the four other large county . 
the bill be design to provide special schooling for more deaf student in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state . 
there be no debate as the senate pass the bill on to the house . 
-PRON- would authorize the texas education agency to establish county - wide day school for the deaf in county of 300,000 or more population , require deaf child between 6 and 13 year of age to attend the day school , permit old one to attend the residential texas school for the deaf here . 
operate budget for the day school in the five county of dallas , harris , bexar , tarrant and el paso would be $ 451,500 , which would be a saving of $ 157,460 yearly after the first year 's capital outlay of $ 88,000 be absorb , parkhouse tell the senate . 
the tea estimate there would be 182 scholastic to attend the day school in dallas county , save -PRON- from come to austin to live in the state deaf school . 
dallas may get to hear a debate on horse race parimutuel soon between reps . v. e. ( red ) berry and joe ratcliff . 
while detail be still to be work out , ratcliff say -PRON- expect to tell home folk in dallas why -PRON- think berry 's propose constitutional amendment should be reject . 
`` -PRON- be get more ' pro ' letter than ' con ' on horse race betting '' , say ratcliff . 
`` but -PRON- believe if people be better inform on this question , most of -PRON- would oppose -PRON- also . 
-PRON- be willing to stake -PRON- political career on -PRON- '' . 
rep. berry , an ex - gambler from san antonio , get elect on -PRON- advocacy of bet on the pony . 
a house committee which hear -PRON- local option proposal be expect to give -PRON- a favorable report , although the resolution face hard sled later . 
the house pass finally , and send to the senate , a bill extend the state health department 's authority to give planning assistance to city . 
the senate quickly whip through -PRON- meager fare of house bill approve by committee , pass the three on the calendar . 
one validate act of school district . 
another enlarged authority of the beaumont navigation district . 
the third amend the enable act for creation of the lamar county hospital district , for which a special constitutional amendment previously be adopt . 
without dissent , senator pass a bill by sen. a. r. schwartz of galveston authorize establishment in the future of a school for the mentally retarded in the gulf coast district . 
money for -PRON- construction will be seek later on but in the meantime the state hospital board can accept gift and donation of a site . 
two tax revision bill be pass . 
one , by sen. louis crump of san saba , would aid more than 17,000 retailer who pay a group of miscellaneous excise tax by eliminate the requirement that each return be notarize . 
instead , retailer would sign a certificate of correctness , violation of which would carry a penalty of one to five year in prison , plus a $ 1,000 fine . 
-PRON- be one of a series of recommendation by the texas research league . 
the other bill , by sen. a. m. aikin jr. of paris , would relieve real estate broker , who pay -PRON- own annual licensing fee , from the $ 12 annual occupation license on broker in such as stock and bond . 
natural gas public utility company would be give the right of eminent domain , under a bill by sen. frank owen 3 , of el paso , to acquire site for underground storage reservoir for gas . 
marshall formby of plainview , former chairman of the texas highway commission , suggest a plan to fill by appointment future vacancy in the legislature and congress , eliminate the need for costly special election . 
under formby 's plan , an appointee would be select by a board compose of the governor , lieutenant governor , speaker of the house , attorney general and chief justice of the texas supreme court . 
austin , texas 
-- state representative decide thursday against take a poll on what kind of tax texans would prefer to pay . 
an adverse vote of 81 to 65 keep in the state affairs committee a bill which would order the referendum on the april 4 ballot , when texas vote on a u.s. senator . 
rep. wesley roberts of seminole , sponsor of the poll idea , say that further delay in the committee can kill the bill . 
the west texan report that -PRON- have finally get chairman bill hollowell of the committee to set -PRON- for public hearing on February 22 . 
the proposal would have to receive final legislative approval , by two - third majority , before march 1 to be print on the april 4 ballot , roberts say . 
opponent generally argue that the ballot could not give enough information about tax proposal for the voter to make an intelligent choice . 
all dallas member vote with roberts , except rep. bill jones , who be absent . 
austin , texas 
-- paradise lose to the alleged water need of texas ' big city thursday . 
rep. james cotten of weatherford insist that a water development bill pass by the texas house of representatives be an effort by big city like dallas and fort worth to cover up place like paradise , a wise county hamlet of 250 people . 
when the shouting end , the bill pass , 114 to 4 , send -PRON- to the senate , where a similar proposal be be sponsor by sen. george parkhouse of dallas . 
most of the fire be direct by cotten against dallas and sen. parkhouse . 
the bill would increase from $ 5,000,000 to $ 15,000,000 the maximum loan the state could make to a local water project . 
cotten construe this as a veiled effort by parkhouse to help dallas and other large city get money which cotten feel could better be spend provide water for rural texas . 
statement by other legislator that dallas be pay for all -PRON- water program by local bond , and that less populous place would benefit most by the pend bill , do not sway cotten 's attack . 
the bill 's defender be mostly small - town legislator like j. w. buchanan of dumas , eligio ( kika ) de la garza of mission , sam f. collins of newton and joe chapman of sulphur springs . 
`` this be a poor boy 's bill '' , say chapman . 
`` dallas and fort worth can vote bond . 
this would help the little peanut district '' . 
austin , texas 
-- a houston teacher , now serve in the legislature , propose thursday a law reduce the time spend learn `` educational method '' . 
rep. henry c. grover , who teach history in the houston public school , would reduce from 24 to 12 semester hour the so - call `` teaching method '' course require to obtain a junior or senior high school teaching certificate . 
a normal year 's work in college be 30 semester hour . 
grover also would require junior - senior high teacher to have at least 24 semester hour credit in the subject -PRON- be teach . 
the remainder of the 4-year college requirement would be in general subject . 
`` a person with a master 's degree in physics , chemistry , math or english , yet who have not take education course , be not permit to teach in the public school '' , say grover . 
college teacher in texas be not require to have the education course . 
fifty - three of the 150 representative immediately join grover as co - signer of the proposal . 
paris , texas ( sp . ) 
-- the board of regent of paris junior college have name dr. clarence charles clark of hays , Kansas as the school 's new president . 
dr. clark will succeed dr. j. r. mclemore , who will retire at the close of the present school term . 
dr. clark hold an earn doctor of education degree from the university of oklahoma . 
-PRON- also receive a master of science degree from texas a & i college and a bachelor of science degree from southwestern state college , weatherford , Oklahoma . 
in addition , dr. clark have study at rhode island state college and massachusetts institute of technology . 
during -PRON- college career , dr. clark be captain of -PRON- basketball team and be a football letterman . 
dr. clark have serve as teacher and principal in oklahoma high school , as teacher and athletic director at raymondville , texas , high school , as an instructor at the university of oklahoma , and as an associate professor of education at fort hays , Kansas , state college . 
-PRON- have serve as a border patrolman and be in the signal corps of the u.s. army . 
denton , texas ( sp . ) 
-- principal of the 13 school in the denton independent school district have be re - elect for the 1961 - 62 session upon the recommendation of supt . chester o. strickland . 
state and federal legislation against racial discrimination in employment be call for yesterday in a report of a `` blue ribbon '' citizen committee on the aid to dependent child program . 
the report , culminate a year long study of the adc program in cook county by a new york city welfare consulting firm , list 10 long range recommendation design to reduce the soar adc case load . 
the report call racial discrimination in employment `` one of the most serious cause of family breakdown , desertion , and adc dependency '' . 
`` must solve problem '' 
the monthly cost of adc to more than 100,000 recipient in the county be 4.4 million dollar , say c. virgil martin , president of carson pirie scott & co. , committee chairman . 
`` -PRON- must solve the problem which have force these people to depend upon adc for subsistence '' , martin say . 
the volume of adc case will decrease , martin report , when the community be able to deal effectively with two problem : relatively limited skill and discrimination in employment because of color . 
these , -PRON- say , be `` two of the principal underlying cause for family breakup lead to adc '' . 
call for extension 
other recommendation make by the committee be : 
extension of the adc program to all child in need live with any relative , include both parent , as a means of preserve family unity . 
research project as soon as possible on the cause and prevention of dependency and illegitimacy . 
several defendant in the summerdale police burglary trial make statement indicate -PRON- guilt at the time of -PRON- arrest , judge james b. parsons be tell in criminal court yesterday . 
the disclosure by charles bellows , chief defense counsel , startled observer and be view as the prelude to a quarrel between the six attorney represent the eight former policeman now on trial . 
bellow make the disclosure when -PRON- ask judge parsons to grant -PRON- client , alan clements , 30 , a separate trial . 
bellow make the request while the all - woman jury be out of the courtroom . 
fear prejudicial aspect 
`` the statement may be highly prejudicial to -PRON- client '' , bellows tell the court . 
`` some of the defendant strongly indicate -PRON- know -PRON- be receive steal property . 
-PRON- be impossible to get a fair trial when some of the defendant make statement involve -PRON- and other '' . 
judge parsons lean over the bench and inquire , `` -PRON- mean some of the defendant make statement admit this '' ? ? 
`` yes , -PRON- honor '' , reply bellow . 
`` what this amount to , if true , be that there will be a free - for - all fight in this case . 
there be a conflict among the defendant '' . 
washington , july 24 
-- president kennedy today push aside other white house business to devote all -PRON- time and attention to work on the berlin crisis address -PRON- will deliver tomorrow night to the american people over nationwide television and radio . 
the president spend much of the week - end at -PRON- summer home on cape cod write the first draft of portion of the address with the help of white house aid in washington with whom -PRON- talk by telephone . 
shortly after the chief executive return to washington in midmorning from hyannis port , Massachusetts , a white house spokesman say the address text still have `` quite a way to go '' toward completion . 
decision be make 
ask to elaborate , pierre salinger , white house press secretary , reply , `` -PRON- would say -PRON- be get to go thru several more draft '' . 
salinger say the work president kennedy , adviser , and member of -PRON- staff be do on the address involve composition and wording , rather than last minute decision on administration plan to meet the late berlin crisis precipitate by russia 's demand and proposal for the city . 
the last 10 case in the investigation of the November 8 election be dismiss yesterday by acting judge john m. karns , who charge that the prosecution obtain evidence `` by unfair and fundamentally illegal mean '' . 
karn say that the case involve a matter `` of even great significance than the guilt or innocence '' of the 50 person . 
-PRON- say evidence be obtain `` in violation of the legal right of citizen '' . 
karns ' ruling pertain to eight of the 10 case . 
in the two other case -PRON- rule that the state have be `` unable to make a case '' . 
contempt proceeding originally have be bring against 677 person in 133 precinct by morris j. wexler , special prosecutor . 
issue jury subpoena 
wexler admit in early court hearing that -PRON- issue grand jury subpena to about 200 person involve in the election investigation , question the individual in the criminal court building , but do not take -PRON- before the grand jury . 
mayer goldberg , attorney for election judge in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward , argue this procedure constitute intimidation . 
wexler have deny repeatedly that coercion be use in question . 
karn say -PRON- be a `` wrongful act '' for wexler to take statement `` privately and outside of the grand jury room '' . 
-PRON- say this constitute a `` very serious misuse '' of the criminal court process . 
`` actually , the abuse of the process may have constitute a contempt of the criminal court of cook county , altho vindication of the authority of that court be not the function of this court '' , say karns , who be a city judge in east st. louis sit in cook county court . 
face seven case 
karn have be schedule this week to hear seven case involve 35 person . 
wexler have charge the precinct judge in these case with `` complementary '' miscount of the vote , in which vote would be take from one candidate and give to another . 
the case involve judge in the 33d , 24th , and 42d precinct of the 31st ward , the 21st and 28th precinct of the 29th ward , the 18th precinct of the 4th ward , and the 9th precinct of the 23d ward . 
the case of the judge in the 58th precinct of the 23d ward have be hear previously and take under advisement by karns . 
two other case also be under advisement . 
claim precedent lacking 
after read -PRON- statement discharge the 23d ward case , karns tell wexler that if the seven case schedule for trial also involve person who have be subpenaed , -PRON- would dismiss -PRON- . 
washington , February 9 
-- president kennedy today propose a mammoth new medical care program whereby social security tax on 70 million american worker would be raise to pay the hospital and some other medical bill of 14.2 million americans over 65 who be cover by social security or railroad retirement program . 
the president , in a special message to congress , tie in with -PRON- aged care plan request for large federal grant to finance medical and dental scholarship , build 20 new medical and 20 new dental school , and expand child health care and general medical research . 
the aged care plan , similar to one the president sponsor last year as a senator , a fight on capitol hill . 
-PRON- be defeat in congress last year . 
cost up to $ 37 a year 
-PRON- would be finance by boost the social security payroll tax by as much as $ 37 a year for each of the worker now pay such tax . 
the social security payroll tax be now 6 per cent -- 3 per cent on each worker and employer -- on the first $ 4,800 of pay per year . 
the kennedy plan alone would boost the base to $ 5,000 a year and the payroll tax to 6.5 per cent -- 3.25 per cent each . 
similar payroll tax boost would be impose on those under the railroad retirement system . 
the payroll tax would actually rise to 7.5 per cent start January 1 , 1963 , if the plan be approve , because the levy be already schedule to go up by 1 per cent on that date to pay for other social security cost . 
outlay would increase 
official estimate the annual tax boost for the medical plan would amount to 1.5 billion dollar and that medical benefit pay out would run 1 billion or more in the first year , 1963 . 
both figure would go higher in later year . 
other part of the kennedy health plan would entail federal grant of 750 million to 1 billion dollar over the next 10 year . 
these would be pay for out of general , not payroll , tax . 
nursing home care 
the aged care plan carry these benefit for person over 65 who be under the social security and railroad retirement system : 1 
full payment of hospital bill for stay up to 90 day for each illness , except that the patient would pay $ 10 a day of the cost for the first nine day . 
2 
full payment of nursing home bill for up to 180 day follow discharge from a hospital . 
a patient could receive up to 300 day pay - for nursing home care under a `` unit formula '' allow more of such care for those who use none or only part of the hospital - care credit . 
3 
hospital outpatient clinic diagnostic service for all cost in excess of $ 20 a patient . 
4 
community visit nurse service at home for up to 240 day an illness . 
the president note that congress last year pass a law provide grant to state to help pay medical bill of the needy aged . 
call proposal modest 
-PRON- say -PRON- plan be design to `` meet the need of those million who have no wish to receive care at the taxpayer ' expense , but who be nevertheless stagger by the drain on -PRON- saving -- or those of -PRON- child -- cause by an extended hospital stay '' . 
`` this be a very modest proposal cut to meet absolutely essential need '' , -PRON- say , `` and with sufficient ' deductible ' requirement to discourage any malingering or unnecessary overcrowding of -PRON- hospital . 
`` this be not a program of socialize medicine . 
-PRON- be a program of prepayment of health cost with absolute freedom of choice guarantee . 
every person will choose -PRON- own doctor and hospital '' . 
would not pay doctor 
the plan do not cover doctor bill . 
-PRON- would still be pay by the patient . 
apart from the aged care plan the president 's most ambitious and costly proposal be for federal scholarship , and grant to build or enlarge medical and dental school . 
the president say the nation 's 92 medical and 47 dental school can not now handle the student load need to meet the rise need for health care . 
moreover , -PRON- say , many qualified young people be not go into medicine and dentistry because -PRON- can not afford the school cost . 
contribution to school 
the scholarship plan would provide federal contribution to each medical and dental school equal to $ 1,500 a year for one - fourth of the first year student . 
the school could use the money to pay 4-year scholarship , base on need , of up to $ 2,000 a year per student . 
in addition , the government would pay a $ 1,000 `` cost of education '' grant to the school for each $ 1,500 in scholarship grant . 
official estimate the combine program would cost 5.1 million dollar the first year and would go up to 21 million by 1966 . 
the president recommend federal `` match grant '' total 700 million dollar in 10 year for construct new medical and dental school or enlarge the capacity of exist one . 
more for nursing home 
in the area of `` community health service '' , the president call for double the present 10 million dollar a year federal grant for nursing home construction . 
-PRON- ask for another 10 million dollar `` initial '' appropriation for `` stimulatory grant '' to state to improve nursing home . 
-PRON- further propose grant of an unspecified sum for experimental hospital . 
in the child health field , the president say -PRON- will recommend later an increase in fund for program under the child 's bureau . 
-PRON- also ask congress to approve establishment of a national child health institute . 
ask research fund 
the president say -PRON- will ask congress to increase grant to state for vocational rehabilitation . 
-PRON- do not say by how much . 
for medical research -PRON- ask a 20 million dollar a year increase , from 30 to 50 million , in match grant for build research facility . 
the president say -PRON- will also propose increase , by an unspecified amount , the 540 million dollar in the 1961 - 62 budget for direct government research in medicine . 
the president say -PRON- proposal combine the `` indispensable element in a sound health program -- people , knowledge , service , facility , and the mean to pay for -PRON- '' . 
reaction as expect 
congressional reaction to the message be along expect line . 
legislator who last year oppose place aged - care under the social security system criticize the president 's plan . 
those who back a similar plan last year hail the message . 
senate republican leader dirksen ( Illinois ) and house republican leader charles halleck ( Indiana ) say the message do not persuade -PRON- to change -PRON- opposition to compulsory medical insurance . 
halleck say the voluntary care plan enact last year should be give a fair trial first . 
house speaker sam rayburn ( d. , tex . ) call the kennedy program `` a mighty fine thing '' , but make no prediction on -PRON- fate in the house . 
washington , February 9 
-- act hastily under white house pressure , the senate tonight confirm robert c. weaver as the nation 's federal housing chief . 
only 11 senator be on the floor and there be no record vote . 
a number of scatter `` aye '' and `` no '' be hear . 
customary senate rule be ignore in order to speed approval of the negro leader as administrator of the housing and home finance agency . 
in the last eight year , all presidential appointment , include those of cabinet rank , have be deny immediate action because of a senate rule require at least a 24 hour delay after -PRON- be report to the floor . 
enforce by demand 
the rule be enforce by demand of sen. wayne morse ( d. , Oregon ) in connection with president eisenhower 's cabinet selection in 1953 and president kennedy 's in 1961 . 
oslo 
the most positive element to emerge from the oslo meeting of north atlantic treaty organization foreign ministers have be the free , franker , and wide discussion , animate by much good mutual understanding than in past meeting . 
this have be a work session of an organization that , by -PRON- very nature , can only proceed along -PRON- route step by step and without dramatic change . 
in oslo , the minister have meet in a climate of candor , and make a genuine attempt to get information and understand one another 's problem . 
this atmosphere of understanding have be particularly noticeable where relation be concern between the `` colonialist '' power and those who have never , or not for a long time , have such problem . 
the nightmare of a clash between those in trouble in africa , exacerbate by the difficulty , change , and tragedy face -PRON- , and other ally who intellectually and emotionally disapprove of the circumstance that have bring these trouble about , have be conspicuous by -PRON- absence . 
explosion avoid 
in the case of portugal , which a few week ago be rumor ready to walk out of the nato council should critic of -PRON- angola policy prove harsh , there have be a noticeable relaxation of tension . 
the general , remarkably courteous , explanation have leave basic position unchanged , but there have be no explosion in the council . 
there should even be no more bitter surprise in the un general assembly as to nato member ' vote , since a new ad hoc nato committee have be set up so that in the future such topic as angola will be discuss in advance . 
canada alone have be somewhat out of step with the oslo attempt to get all the allied car back on the track behind the nato locomotive . 
even norway , despite daily but limited manifestation against atomic arm in the heart of this northernmost capital of the alliance , be today closer to the nato line . 
on the negative side of the balance sheet must be set some disappointment that the united states leadership have not be as much in evidence as hop for . 
one diplomat describe the tenor of secretary of state dean rusk 's speech as `` inconclusive '' . 
but -PRON- hasten to add that , if united states policy be not always clear , despite mr. rusk 's analysis of the various global danger point and setback for the west , this may merely mean the new administration have not yet firmly fix -PRON- policy . 
exploratory mood 
a certain vagueness may also be cause by tactical appreciation of the fact that the present council meeting be a semipublic affair , with no few than six soviet correspondent accredit . 
the impression have nevertheless be give during these three day , despite mr. rusk 's personal popularity , that the united states delegation come to oslo in a somewhat tentative and exploratory frame of mind , more ready to listen and learn than to enunciate firm policy on a global scale with detailed application to individual danger spot . 
the secretary of state -PRON- , in -PRON- first speech , give some idea of the tremendous march of event inside and outside the united states that have preoccupy the new administration in the past four month . 
but where the core of nato be concern , the secretary of state have not only reiterate the united states ' profound attachment to the alliance , `` cornerstone '' of -PRON- foreign policy , but have announce that five nuclear submarine will eventually be at nato 's disposal in european water . 
the secretary of state have also solemnly repeat a warning to the soviet union that the united states will not stand for another setback in berlin , an affirmation once again take up by the council as a whole . 
conflict survey 
the secretary 's great achievement be perhaps the rekindling of nato realization that east - west friction , wherever -PRON- take place around the globe , be in essence the general conflict between two entirely different society , and must be treat as such without regard to geographical distance or lack of apparent connection . 
the annual spring meeting have give an impetus in three main direction : more , deep , and more timely political consultation within the alliance , the use of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( when ratify ) as a method of coordinate aid to the underdeveloped country , and the need for strengthen conventional force as well as the maintenance of the nuclear deterrent . 
this increase in the `` threshold '' , as the conventional force strengthen be call , will prove one of the alliance 's most difficult problem in the month to come . 
each ally will have to carry out obligation long since lay down , but never completely fulfil . 
washington 
the kennedy administration move haltingly toward a geneva conference on laos just as serious debate over -PRON- foreign policy erupt for the first time . 
there be little optimism here that the communists will be any more docile at the conference table than -PRON- be in military action on the ground in laos . 
the united states , state department official explain , now be mainly interested in set up an international inspection system which will prevent laos from be use as a base for communist attack on neighbor thailand and south viet nam . 
-PRON- count on the aid of the neutral country attend the geneva conference to achieve this . 
the united states hop that any future lao cabinet would not become communist dominate . 
but -PRON- be apparent that no acceptable formula have be find to prevent such a possibility . 
policy modify 
the inclination here be to accept a de facto cease - fire in laos , rather than continue to insist on a verification of the cease - fire by the international control commission before participate in the geneva conference . 
this be another of the modification of policy on laos that the kennedy administration have feel compel to make . 
-PRON- excuse these action as be the chain reaction to basic error make in the previous administration . 
-PRON- spokesman insist that there have not be time enough to institute reform in military and economic aid policy in the critical area . 
but with the month move on -- and the immediate confrontation with the communists show no gain for the free world -- the question arise : 
how effective have kennedy administration first foreign policy decision be in deal with communist aggression ? ? 
former vice - president richard m. nixon in detroit call for a firm and tough policy toward the soviet union . 
-PRON- be critical of what -PRON- feel be president kennedy 's tendency to be too conciliatory . 
gop restrain 
-PRON- do not take a gallup poll to find out that most republicans in congress feel this understate the situation as republicans see -PRON- . 
-PRON- can hardly restrain -PRON- from raise the question of whether republicans , if -PRON- have be in power , would have make `` amateurish and monumental blunder '' in cuba . 
one republican senator tell this correspondent that -PRON- be constantly be ask why -PRON- do not attack the kennedy administration on this score . 
-PRON- reply , -PRON- say , be that -PRON- agree to the need for unity in the country now . 
but -PRON- further say that -PRON- be good politic to let other question the wisdom of administration policy first . 
the republicans some week ago serve notice through senator thruston b. morton ( r ) of kentucky , chairman of the republican national committee , that the kennedy administration would be hold responsible if the outcome in laos be a coalition government susceptible of communist domination . 
kennedy administration policy also have be assail now from another direction by 70 harvard , boston university , brandeis , and massachusetts institute of technology educator . 
detente urge 
this group plead with the administration to `` give no further support for the invasion of cuba by exile group '' . 
-PRON- recommend that the united states `` seek instead to detach the castro regime from the communist bloc by work for a diplomatic detente and a resumption of trade relation ; ; 
and concentrate -PRON- constructive effort on eliminate in other part of latin america the social condition on which totalitarian nationalism feed '' . 
mr. nixon , for -PRON- part , would oppose intervention in cuba without specific provocation . 
but -PRON- do recommend that president kennedy state clearly that if communist country ship any further arm to cuba that -PRON- would not be tolerate . 
until the cuban fiasco and the communist military victory in laos , almost any observer would have say that president kennedy have blend a program that respect , generally , the opinion voice both by mr. nixon and the professor . 
aid plan revamp 
very early in -PRON- administration -PRON- inform the kremlin through diplomatic channel , a high official source disclose , that the new administration would react even tough than the eisenhower administration would during the formative period of the administration . 
strenuous effort be make to remove pin pricking from administration statement . 
policy on nuclear test ban negotiation be review and change . 
but thus far there have be no response in kind . 
foreign aid program be revamp to give great emphasis to economic aid and to encourage political reform in recipient nation . 
in laos , the administration look at the eisenhower administration effort to show determination by sail a naval fleet into southeast asian water as a useless gesture . 
again and again -PRON- ask the communists to `` freeze '' the military situation in laos . 
but the communists aid the pathet lao at an even fast rate . 
and after several correspondent go into pathet lao territory and expose the huge build - up , administration spokesman acclaim -PRON- for perform a `` great service '' and lay the matter before the southeast asia treaty organization . 
seato be steam up and prepared contingency plan for cope with the military loss in laos . 
but the communists never give sufficient provocation at any one time for the united states to want to risk a limited or an all - out war over laos . 
( some seato nation disagree , however . 
) 
there be the further complication that the administration have very early conclude that laos be ill suit to be an ally , unlike -PRON- more determined neighbor , thailand and south viet nam . 
the administration declare -PRON- in favor of a neutralize laos . 
the pro - western government , which the united states have help in a revolt against the souvanna phouma `` neutralist '' government , never do appear to spark much fighting spirit in the royal lao army . 
there certainly be not any more energy display after -PRON- be clear the united states would not back the pro - western government to the hilt . 
if the administration ever have any idea that -PRON- could find an acceptable alternative to prince souvanna phouma , whom -PRON- feel be too trust of communists , -PRON- gradually have to relinquish -PRON- . 
one factor be the statement of senator j. w. fulbright ( d ) of arkansas , chairman of the senate foreign relations committee . 
-PRON- declare on march 25 that the united states have err a year and a half ago by `` encourage the removal '' of prince souvanna . 
washington 
the white house be take extraordinary step to check the rapid growth of juvenile delinquency in the united states . 
the president be deeply concerned over this problem and -PRON- effect upon the `` vitality of the nation '' . 
in an important assertion of national leadership in this field , -PRON- have issue an executive order establish the president 's committee on juvenile delinquency and crime , to be support and assist by a citizens advisory council of recognize authority on juvenile problem . 
the president ask the support and cooperation of congress in -PRON- effort through the enactment of legislation to provide federal grant to state for specified effort in combat this disturb crime trend . 
offense multiply 
the president have also call upon the attorney general , the secretary of health , education and welfare , and the secretary of labor to coordinate -PRON- effort `` in the development of a program of federal leadership to assist state and local community in -PRON- effort to cope with the problem . 
simultaneously the president announce thursday the appointment of david l. hackett , a special assistant to the attorney general , as executive director of the new committee on juvenile delinquency and youth crime . 
-PRON- sense of urgency in this matter stem from the fact that court case and juvenile arrest have more than double since 1948 , each year show an increase in offender . 
among arrest report by the federal bureau of investigation in 1959 , about half for burglary and larceny involved person under 18 year of age . 
east providence should organize -PRON- civil defense setup and begin by appoint a full - time director , raymond h. hawksley , the present city cd head , believe . 
mr. hawksley say yesterday -PRON- would be willing to go before the city council `` or anyone else locally '' to outline -PRON- proposal at the early possible time . 
east providence now have no civil defense program . 
mr. hawksley , the state 's general treasurer , have be a part - time cd director in the city for the last nine year . 
-PRON- be not interested in be name a full - time director . 
note that president kennedy have hand the defense department the major responsibility for the nation 's civil defense program , mr. hawksley say the federal government would pay half the salary of a full - time local director . 
-PRON- express the opinion the city could hire a cd director for about $ 3,500 a year and would only have to put up half that amount on a match fund basis to defray the salary cost . 
mr. hawksley say -PRON- believe there be a number of qualified city resident who would be willing to take the full - time cd job . 
one of these man be former fire chief john a. laughlin , -PRON- say . 
along with a director , the city should provide a cd headquarters so that pertinent information about the local organization would be centralize . 
mr. hawksley say . 
one advantage that would come to the city in have a full - time director , -PRON- say , be that east providence would become eligible to apply to the federal government for financial aid in purchase equipment need for a sound civil defense program . 
matching fund also can be obtain for procurement of such item as radio , siren and rescue truck , -PRON- say . 
mr. hawksley believe that east providence could use two more rescue truck , similar to the cd vehicle obtain several year ago and now detailed to the central fire station . 
-PRON- would assign one of the rescue truck to the riverside section of the city and the other to the rumford area . 
speak of the present status of civil defense in the city , mr. hawksley say -PRON- would be willing to bet that not more than one person in a hundred would know what to do or where to go in the event of an enemy attack . 
the narragansett race track ground be one assembly point , -PRON- say , and a drive - in theater in seekonk would be another . 
riverside resident would go to the seekonk assembly point . 
mr. hawksley say -PRON- be not critical of city resident for not know what to do or where to assemble in case of an air attack . 
such vital information , -PRON- say , have to be make available to the public frequently and at regular interval for resident to know . 
if the city council fail to consider appointment of a full - time cd director , mr. hawksley say , then -PRON- plan to call a meeting early in september so that a civil defense organization will be develop locally . 
one of the first thing -PRON- would do , -PRON- say , would be to organize class in first aid . 
other step would be develop after information drift down to the local level from the federal government . 
rhode island be go to examine -PRON- sunday sale law with possible revision in mind . 
governor notte say last night -PRON- plan to name a committee to make the study and come up with recommendation for possible change in time for the next session of the general assembly . 
the governor 's move into the so - call `` blue law '' controversy come in the form of a letter to miss mary r. grant , deputy city clerk of central falls . 
a copy be release to the press . 
mr. notte be respond to a resolution adopt by the central falls city council on july 10 and send to the state house by miss grant . 
the resolution urge the governor to have a complete study of the sunday sale law make with an eye to -PRON- revision at the next session of the legislature . 
while the city council suggest that the legislative council may perform the review , mr. notte say that instead -PRON- will take up the matter with atty . gen. j. joseph nugent to get `` the benefit of -PRON- view '' . 
-PRON- will then appoint the study committee with mr. nugent 's cooperation , the governor say . 
`` -PRON- would expect the propose committee to hold public hearing '' , mr. notte say , `` to obtain the view of the general public and religious , labor and special - interest group affect by these law '' . 
the governor write miss grant that -PRON- have be concern for some time `` with the continuous problem which confront -PRON- local and state law enforcement officer as a result of the law regulate sunday sale '' . 
the attorney general have advise local police that -PRON- be -PRON- duty to enforce the blue law . 
should there be evidence -PRON- be shirk , -PRON- have say , the state police will step into the situation . 
there have be more activity across the state line in massachusetts than in rhode island in recent week toward enforcement of the sunday sale law . 
the statute , similar in both the bay state and rhode island and date back in some instance to colonial time , severely limit the type of merchandise that may be sell on the sabbath . 
the central falls city council express concern especially that more food be place on the eligible list and that neighborhood grocery and variety store be allow to do business on sunday . 
the only day -PRON- `` have a chance to compete with large supermarket be on sunday '' , the council 's resolution say . 
the small shop `` must be retain , for -PRON- provide essential service to the community '' , accord to the resolution , which add that -PRON- `` also be the source of livelihood for thousand of -PRON- neighbor '' . 
-PRON- declare that sunday sale license provide `` great revenue '' to the local government . 
the council advise the governor that `` large supermarket , factory outlet and department store not be allow to do business '' on sunday . 
-PRON- `` operate on a volume basis '' , -PRON- be contend , `` and be not essential to provide the more limited but vital shopping need of the community '' . 
liberal and conservative in both party -- democratic and republican -- should divorce -PRON- and form two independent party , george h. reama , nationally know labor - management expert , say here yesterday . 
mr. reama tell the rotary club of providence at -PRON- luncheon at the sheraton - biltmore hotel that about half of the people in the country want the `` welfare '' type of government and the other half want a free enterprise system . 
-PRON- suggest that a regrouping of force may allow the average voter a good pull at the right lever for -PRON- on election day . 
-PRON- say -PRON- be `` confess that -PRON- be a member of the socialist party in 1910 '' . 
that , -PRON- add , be when -PRON- be `` a very young man , a machinist and toolmaker by trade . 
`` that be before -PRON- study law . 
some of -PRON- fellow worker be groom -PRON- for an office in the socialist party . 
the lawyer with whom -PRON- study law steer -PRON- off the socialist track . 
-PRON- steer -PRON- to the right track -- the free enterprise track '' . 
-PRON- say that when -PRON- be a socialist in 1910 , the party call for government operation of all utility and the pooling of all resource . 
-PRON- suggest that without the socialist party ever gain a national victory , most of -PRON- original program have come to pass under both major party . 
mr. reama , who retire as vice president of the american screw co. in 1955 say , `` both party in the last election tell -PRON- that -PRON- need a five per cent growth in the gross national product -- but neither tell -PRON- how to achieve -PRON- '' . 
-PRON- say -PRON- favor wage increase for worker -- `` but manufacturer be catch in a profit squeeze '' -- and raise should only come when the public be condition to high price , -PRON- add . 
indicate the way in which -PRON- have turn -PRON- back on -PRON- 1910 philosophy , mr. reama say : `` a socialist be a person who believe in divide everything -PRON- do not own '' . 
mr. reama , far from really be retire , be engage in industrial relation counseling . 
a petition bear the signature of more than 1,700 johnston taxpayer be present to the town council last night as what be hop will be the first step in obtain a home rule charter for the town . 
william a. martinelli , chairman of the citizens group of johnston , transfer the petition from -PRON- left hand to -PRON- right hand after the council vote to accept -PRON- at the suggestion of council president raymond fortin sr . . 
the law which govern home rule charter petition state that -PRON- must be refer to the chairman of the board of canvasser for verification of the signature within 10 day and mr. martinelli happen to hold that post . 
mr. martinelli explain that there should be more than enough signature to assure the scheduling of a vote on the home rule charter and possible election of a nine member charter commission within 70 day . 
-PRON- explain that by law the council must establish procedure for a vote on the issue within 60 day after the board of canvasser complete -PRON- work . 
a difference of opinion arise between mr. martinelli and john p. bourcier , town solicitor , over the exact manner in which the vote be handle . 
mr. martinelli have , in recent week , be of the opinion that a special town meeting would be call for the vote , while mr. bourcier say that a special election may be call instead . 
mr. bourcier say that -PRON- have consult several superior court justice in the last week and receive opinion favor both procedure . 
-PRON- assure mr. martinelli and the council that -PRON- would study the correct method and report back to the council as soon as possible . 
mr. martinelli say yesterday that the citizens group of johnston will meet again july 24 to plan further strategy in the charter movement . 
-PRON- say that the group have no candidate for the charter commission in mind at present , but that -PRON- will undoubtedly endorse candidate when the time come . 
`` after inspire this , -PRON- think -PRON- should certainly follow through on -PRON- '' , -PRON- declare . 
`` -PRON- have become -PRON- responsibility and -PRON- hope that the citizens group will spearhead the movement '' . 
-PRON- say -PRON- would not be surprised if some of the more than 30 member of the group be interested in run on the require non - partisan ballot for post on the charter commission . 
`` -PRON- most immediate goal be to increase public awareness of the movement '' , -PRON- indicate , `` and to tell -PRON- what this will mean for the town '' . 
-PRON- expect that if the present timetable be follow a vote will be schedule during the last week in september . 
some opposition to the home rule movement start to be hear yesterday , with spokesman for the town 's insurgent democratic leadership speak out against the home rule charter in favor of the model municipal league charter . 
increase opposition can be expect in come week , -PRON- be indicate . 
misunderstanding of the real meaning of a home rule charter be cite as a factor which have cause the citizens group to obtain signature under what be term `` false pretense '' . 
several signer affix -PRON- name , -PRON- be learn , after be tell that no tax increase would be possible without consent of the general assembly and that a provision could be include in the charter to have the town take over the johnston sanitary district sewer system . 
action on a new ordinance permit motorist who plead guilty to minor traffic offense to pay fine at the local police station may be take at monday 's special north providence town council meeting . 
council president frank sanantonio say yesterday -PRON- may ask the council to formally request town solicitor michael a. abatuno to draft the ordinance . 
at the last session of the general assembly , the town be authorize to adopt such an ordinance as a means of make enforcement of minor offense more effective . 
nothing have be do yet to take advantage of the enable legislation . 
at present all offense must be take to sixth district court for disposition . 
local police have hesitate to prosecute -PRON- because of the heavy court cost involve even for the simple offense . 
plainfield 
-- james p. mitchell and sen. walter h. jones r - bergen , last night disagree on the value of use as a campaign issue a remark by richard j. hughes , democratic gubernatorial candidate , that the gop be `` campaign on the carcass of eisenhower republicanism '' . 
mitchell be for use -PRON- , jones against , and sen. wayne dumont jr. r - warren do not mention -PRON- when the three republican gubernatorial candidate speak at stagger interval before 100 person at the park hotel . 
the controversial remark be first make sunday by hughes at a westfield young democratic club cocktail party at the scotch plains country club . 
-PRON- be greet with a chorus of boo by 500 woman in trenton monday at a forum of the state federation of women 's clubs . 
hughes say monday , `` -PRON- be the apparent intention of the republican party to campaign on the carcass of what -PRON- call eisenhower republicanism , but the heart stop beat and the lifeblood congeal after eisenhower retire . 
now -PRON- be go , the republican party be not go to be able to sell the tatter remain to the people of the state '' . 
sunday -PRON- have add , `` -PRON- can love eisenhower the man , even if -PRON- consider -PRON- a mediocre president but there be nothing leave of the republican party without -PRON- leadership '' . 
mitchell say the statement should become a major issue in the primary and the fall campaign . 
`` how can a man with any degree of common decency charge this '' ? ? 
-PRON- ask . 
the former secretary of labor say -PRON- be proud to be an eisenhower republican `` and proud to have absorb -PRON- philosophy '' while work in -PRON- adminstration . 
mitchell say the closeness of the outcome in last fall 's presidential election do not mean that eisenhower republicanism be a dead issue . 
regret attack 
jones say -PRON- regret hughes have make a personal attack on a past president . 
`` -PRON- be wrong to inject eisenhower into this campaign '' , -PRON- say , `` because the primary be be wag on state issue and -PRON- will not be force into re - argue an old national campaign '' . 
the audience last night do not respond with either applause or boo to mention of hughes ' remark . 
dumont speak on the merit of have an open primary . 
-PRON- then launch into what the issue should be in the campaign . 
state aid to school , the continuance of railroad passenger service , the proper us of surplus fund of the port of new york authority , and make new jersey attractive to new industry . 
decrie joblessness 
mitchell decry the high rate of unemployment in the state and say the meyner administration and the republican - control state senate `` must share the blame for this '' . 
note that plainfield last year have lose the mack truck co. plant , -PRON- say industry will not come into this state until there be tax reform . 
`` but -PRON- be not in favor of a sale or state income tax at this time '' , mitchell say . 
jones , unhappy that the candidate be limit to eight minute for a speech and no audience question , save -PRON- barb for mitchell . 
-PRON- say mitchell be against the centralization of government in washington but look to the kennedy administration for aid to meet new jersey school and transportation crisis . 
`` -PRON- call for help while say -PRON- be against centralization , but -PRON- can not have -PRON- both way '' , jones say . 
the state be now face with the immediate question of raise new tax whether on utility , real estate or motor vehicle , -PRON- say , `` and -PRON- challenge mitchell to tell the people where -PRON- stand on the tax issue '' . 
defend ike 
earlier , mitchell say in a statement : 
`` -PRON- think that all americans will resent deeply the statement make about president eisenhower by richard j. hughes . 
-PRON- reference to ' discredit carcass ' or ' tatter remain ' of the president 's leadership be an insult to the man who lead -PRON- force to victory in the great war in all history , to the man who be twice elect overwhelmingly by the american people as president of the united states , and who have be the symbol to the world of the peace - love intention of the free nation . 
`` -PRON- find -PRON- hard to understand how anyone seek a position in public life could demonstrate such poor judgment and bad taste . 
`` such a vicious statement can only have -PRON- origin in the desire of a new political candidate to try to make -PRON- name know by condemn a man of world stature . 
-PRON- can only rebound to mr. hughes ' discredit '' . 
see jones ahead 
sen. charles w. sandman , r - cape may , say today jones will run well ahead of -PRON- gop opponent for the gubernatorial nomination . 
sandman , state campaign chairman for jones , be address a meeting in the military park hotel , newark , of essex county leader and campaign manager for jones . 
sandman tell the gathering that report from worker on a local level all over the state indicate that jones will be choose the republican party 's nominee with the large majority give a candidate in recent year . 
sandman say : `` the announcement that sen. clifford case aj , have decide to spend all -PRON- available time campaign for mr. mitchell be a dead giveaway . 
-PRON- be a desperate effort to prop up a sag candidate who have prove -PRON- can not answer any question about new jersey 's problem . 
`` -PRON- have witness in this campaign the effort to project mr. mitchell as the image of a unity candidate from washington . 
that fail . 
`` -PRON- be now witness an effort to transfer to mr. mitchell some of the glow of sen. case 's candidacy of last year . 
that , too , will fail '' . 
sandman announce the appointment of mrs. harriet copeland greenfield of 330 woodland ave . , westfield , as state chairman of the republican women for jones committee . 
mrs. greenfield be president of the westfield women 's republican club and be a westfield county committeewoman . 
county supervisor weldon r. sheets , who be a candidate for the democratic gubernatorial nomination , today call for an end to paper ballot in those county in the state which still use -PRON- . 
the proposal , sheets say , represent part of -PRON- program for election reform necessary to make democracy in new jersey more than a `` lip service word '' . 
sheet say that -PRON- propose law would offer state financing aid for the purchase of voting machine , enable county to repay the loan over a 10-year period without interest or charge . 
sheet add that -PRON- would ask for exclusive use of voting machine in the state by january , 1964 . 
although -PRON- point out that mandatory legislation impinge on home rule be basically distasteful , -PRON- add that the vital interest in election result transcend county line . 
the candidacy of mayor james j. sheeran of west orange , for the republican nomination for sheriff of essex county , be support today by edward w. roos , west orange public safety commissioner . 
sheeran , a lawyer and former fbi man be run against the republican organization 's candidate , freeholder william macdonald , for the vacancy leave by the resignation of neil duffy , now a member of the state board of tax appeals . 
`` -PRON- experience as public safety commissioner '' , roos say , `` have show -PRON- that the office of sheriff be best fill by a man with law enforcement experience , and preferably one who be a lawyer . 
jim sheeran fit that description '' . 
trenton 
-- william j. seidel , state fire warden in the department of conservation and economic development , have retire after 36 year of service . 
a citation from conservation commissioner salvatore a. bontempo credit -PRON- supervision with a reduction in the number of forest fire in the state . 
seidel join the department in 1925 as a division fire warden after graduation in 1921 from the university of michigan with a degree in forestry and employment with private lumber company . 
in october 1944 , -PRON- be appoint state warden and chief of the forest fire section . 
under -PRON- supervision , the state fire - fight agency develop such technique as plow of fire line and establish a fleet of tractor plow and tractor unit for fire fighting . 
-PRON- also expand and modernize the radio system with a central control station . 
-PRON- introduce regular briefing session for district fire warden and first aid training for section warden . 
-PRON- be credit with set up an annual co - operative fire prevention program in co - operation with the red cross and state department of education . 
boonton 
-- richard j. hughes make -PRON- morris county debut in -PRON- bid for the democratic gubernatorial nomination here last night with a pledge `` to carry the issue to every corner of the state '' . 
-PRON- promise nearly 200 democratic county committee member at the meeting in the puddingstone inn : `` when -PRON- come back here after the november election -PRON- will think , ' -PRON- be -PRON- man -- -PRON- be the kind of governor -PRON- be glad -PRON- elect ' '' . 
-PRON- say , `` -PRON- democrats must resolve -PRON- issue on the test of what be right and just , and not what be expedient at the time '' . 
attack republicans 
in -PRON- only attack on the republicans , hughes say , `` the three republican candidate for governor be trip over -PRON- foot for popular slogan to win the primary . 
but -PRON- will have a liberal , well plan , forward look , honest platform . 
-PRON- will not talk out of one side of -PRON- mouth in morris county and out of the other side in hudson . 
`` -PRON- will take the truth to the people , and the people will like the truth and elect -PRON- candidate and party in november '' . 
-PRON- say , `` -PRON- can see sign of the republicans ' feeble attack on the meyner administration . 
but -PRON- shall campaign on the meyner record to meet the need of the year ahead '' . 
-PRON- urge new jersey to `` become a full partner in the courageous action of president kennedy '' . 
-PRON- call for a great attraction of industry and a stop to the piracy of industry by southern state , and a strong fight against discrimination in business and industry . 
`` -PRON- must keep the bloodstream of new jersey clean '' , the former superior court judge say . 
`` to prevent hoodlum from infiltrate the state as -PRON- do in the republican administration in the early 1940s '' . 
call the democrats the `` party that live , breathe and think for the good of the people '' , hughes ask , `` a representative democratic vote in the primary for a springboard toward victory in november '' . 
hughe support gov. meyner 's `` green acres '' plan for save large tract of open land from the onrush of urban development . 
-PRON- say legislation for a $ 60 million bond issue to underwrite the program be expect to be introduce monday . 
conservation plan 
the plan will provide $ 45 million for purchase of open land by the state . 
the other $ 15 million be to be allot to municipality on a match fund basis . 
hughes say , `` this be not a plan to conquer space -- but to conserve -PRON- '' , point out the state population have increase 125,000 each year since 1950 . 
-PRON- say `` morris county be rapidly change and unless step be take to preserve the green area , there will be no land leave to preserve '' . 
hughe would not comment on tax reform or other issue in which the republican candidate be involve . 
-PRON- say no matter what stand -PRON- take -PRON- would be misconstrue that -PRON- be sympathetic to one or the other of the republicans . 
`` after the primary '' , -PRON- promise , `` -PRON- will be explicit on where -PRON- stand to bring -PRON- a strong , dynamic administration . 
-PRON- be not afraid to tangle with the republican nominee '' . 
trenton 
-- fifteen member of the republican state committee who be retire -- voluntarily -- this year be honor yesterday by -PRON- colleague . 
the outgoing member , whose four - year term will expire a week after the april 18 primary election , receive carve wooden elephant , complete with ivory tusk , to remember the state committee by . 
there may be other 1961 state committee retirement come april 18 , but -PRON- will be leave by choice of the republican voter . 
a special presentation be make to mrs. geraldine thompson of red bank , who be step down after 35 year on the committee . 
-PRON- also be the original gop national committeewoman from new jersey in the early 1920 follow adoption of the woman 's suffrage amendment . 
-PRON- serve one four - year term on the national committee . 
resentment well up yesterday among democratic district leader and some county leader at report that mayor wagner have decide to seek a third term with paul r. screvane and abraham d. beame as running mate . 
at the same time reaction among anti - organization democratic leader and in the liberal party to the mayor 's report plan be generally favorable . 
some anti - organization democrats see in the program an opportunity to end the bitter internal fight within the democratic party that have be go on for the last three year . 
the resentment among democratic organization leader to the report wagner plan be direct particularly at the mayor 's effort to name -PRON- own running mate without consult the leader . 
some view this attempt as evidence that mr. wagner regard -PRON- as big than the party . 
opposition report 
some democratic district and county leader be report try to induce state controller arthur levitt of brooklyn to oppose mr. wagner for the mayoral nomination in the September 7 democratic primary . 
these contend there be a serious question as to whether mr. wagner have the confidence of the democratic rank and file in the city . 
-PRON- view be that last - minute change the mayor be propose to make in the democratic ticket only emphasize the weakness of -PRON- performance as mayor . 
in an apparent effort to head off such a rival primary slate , mr. wagner talk by telephone yesterday with representative charles a. buckley , the bronx democratic leader , and with joseph t. sharkey , the brooklyn democratic leader . 
mayor visit buckley 
as usual , -PRON- make no attempt to get in touch with carmine g. de sapio , the manhattan leader . 
-PRON- be publicly on record as believe mr. de sapio should be replace for the good of the party . 
last night the mayor visit mr. buckley at the bronx leader 's home for a discussion of the situation . 
apparently -PRON- believe mr. buckley hold the key to the democratic organization 's acceptance of -PRON- choice for run mate without a struggle . 
in talk with mr. buckley last week in washington , the mayor apparently receive the bronx leader 's assent to drop controller lawrence e. gerosa , who live in the bronx , from this year 's ticket . 
but mr. buckley seem to have assume -PRON- would be give the right to pick mr. gerosa 's successor . 
screvane and beame hail 
the mayor decline in two interview with reporter yesterday to confirm or deny the report that -PRON- have decide to run and want mr. screvane , who live in queens , to replace abe stark , the incumbent , as the candidate for president of the city council and mr. beame , who live in brooklyn , to replace mr. gerosa as the candidate for controller . 
the mayor speak yesterday at the united irish counties feis on the hunter college campus in the bronx . 
after -PRON- speech , reporter ask -PRON- about the report of -PRON- political intention , publish in yesterday 's new york times . 
the mayor say : 
`` -PRON- do not come from -PRON- . 
but as -PRON- have say before , if -PRON- announce -PRON- candidacy , -PRON- will have something definite to say about running mate '' . 
boston , june 16 
-- a wave of public resentment against corruption in government be rise in massachusetts . 
there be a tangible feeling in the air of revulsion toward politic . 
the taxi driver take the visitor from the airport remark that politician in the state be `` all the same '' . 
`` -PRON- be ' see joe , see jim ' '' , -PRON- say . 
`` the hand be out '' . 
a political scientist write of the growth of `` alienated voter '' , who `` believe that voting be useless because politician or those who influence politician be corrupt , selfish and beyond popular control . 
these voter view the political process as a secret conspiracy , the object of which be to plunder -PRON- '' . 
corruption be hardly a recent development in the city and state that be widely identify as the locale of edwin o'connor 's novel , `` the last hurrah '' . 
but there be reason for the current spotlight on the subject . 
a succession of highly publicize scandal have arouse the public within the last year . 
graft in the construction of highway and other public work have bring on state and federal investigation . 
and the election of president kennedy have attract new attention to the ethical climate of -PRON- home state . 
a reader of the boston newspaper can hardly escape the impression that petty chicanery , or bad , be the norm in massachusetts public life . 
day after day some new episode be report . 
the state public works department be accuse of have spend $ 8,555 to build a private beach for a state judge on -PRON- waterfront property . 
an assistant attorney general be direct to investigate . 
washington , june 18 
-- congress start another week tomorrow with sharply contrast forecast for the two chamber . 
in the senate , several bill be expect to pass without any major conflict or opposition . 
in the house , the southern - republican coalition be expect to make another major stand in opposition to the administration 's housing bill , while more jockeying be expect in an attempt to advance the aid - to - education bill . 
the housing bill be now in the house rules committee . 
-PRON- be expect to be report out tuesday , but this be a little uncertain . 
the panel 's action depend on the return of representative james w. trimble , democrat of arkansas , who have be side with speaker sam rayburn 's force in the rules committee in move bill to the floor . 
mr. trimble have be in the hospital but be expect back tuesday . 
leadership be hopeful 
the housing bill be expect to encounter strong opposition by the coalition of southern democrats and conservative republicans . 
the democratic leadership , however , hop to pass -PRON- sometime this week . 
the $ 6,100,000,000 measure , which be pass last monday by the senate , provide for forty - year mortgage at low down - payment for moderate - income family . 
-PRON- also provide for fund to clear slum and help college build dormitory . 
the education bill appear to be temporarily stall in the rules committee , where two northern democratic member who usually vote with the administration be balk because of the religious controversy . 
-PRON- be james j. delaney of queens and thomas p. o'neill jr. of massachusetts . 
three group to meet 
what could rescue the bill would be some quick progress on a bill amend the national defense education act of 1958 . 
this would provide for long - term federal loan for construction of parochial and other private - school facility for teach science , language and mathematic . 
mr. delaney and mr. o'neill be not willing to vote on the public - school measure until the defense education bill clear the house education and labor committee . 
about half of all peace corps project assign to voluntary agency will be carry out by religious group , accord to an official of the corp . 
in the $ 40,000,000 budget that have be submit for congressional approval , $ 26,000,000 would be spend through university and private voluntary agency . 
twelve project propose by private group be at the contract - negotiation stage , gordon boyce , director of relation with the voluntary agency , say in a washington interview . 
six of these be propose by religious group . 
-PRON- will be for teaching , agriculture and community development in southeast asia , africa , the middle east and latin america . 
question raise 
interview with several church leader have disclose that this development have raise the question whether the peace corps will be able to prevent confusion for church and state over method , mean and goal . 
there be a number of way this could happen , the churchman point out , and here be an example : 
last month in ghana an american missionary discover when -PRON- come to pay -PRON- hotel bill that the usual rate have be double . 
when -PRON- protest , the hotel owner say : 
`` why do -PRON- worry ? ? 
the u. s. government be pay for -PRON- . 
the u. s. government pay for all -PRON- overseas worker '' . 
missionary explain 
`` -PRON- do not work for the government '' , the american say . 
`` -PRON- be a missionary '' . 
the hotel owner shrug . 
`` same thing '' , -PRON- say . 
and then , some churchman remark , there be a more classical church - state problem : 
can religious agency use government fund and peace corps personnel in -PRON- project and still preserve the constitutional requirement on separation of church and state ? ? 
r. sargent shriver jr. , director of the corp , be certain that -PRON- can . 
no religious group , -PRON- declare in an interview , will receive peace corps fund unless -PRON- forswear all proselytize on the project -PRON- propose . 
moscow , june 18 
-- at a gay party in the kremlin for president sukarno of indonesia , premier khrushchev pull out -PRON- pocket and say , beam : `` look , -PRON- take everything -PRON- have '' ! ! 
mr. khrushchev be jest in the expansive mood of the successful banker . 
indonesia be one of the twenty under - develop country of asia , africa and latin america that be receive soviet aid . 
the soviet union and other member of the communist bloc be rapidly expand -PRON- economic , technical and military assistance to the uncommitted nation . 
the communist country allocate more than $ 1,000,000,000 in economic aid alone last year , accord to western estimate . 
this be the big annual outlay since the communist program for the under - develop country make -PRON- modest beginning in 1954 . 
in 1960 more than 6,000 communist technician be present in those country . 
united nations , n. y. , june 18 
-- a committee of expert have recommend that a country 's population be consider in the distribution of professional post at the united nations . 
this be disclose today by a responsible source amid intensify effort by the soviet union to gain a great role in the staff and operation of the united nations . 
one effect of the proposal , which put a premium on population instead of economic strength , as in the past , would be to take job from european nation and give more to such country as india . 
india be the most populous united nations member with more than 400,000,000 inhabitant . 
the new formula for fill staff position in the secretariat be one of a number of recommendation make by a panel of eight in a long and detailed report . 
the report be complete after nearly eighteen month of work on the question of the organization of the united nations . 
formula be due this week 
the advisory committee on administrative and budgetary questions be expect to receive the report this week . 
the job formula be understand to follow these line : 
each of the organization 's ninety - nine member would get two professional post , such as political affair officer , a department head or an economist , to start . 
each member would get one post for each 10,000,000 people in -PRON- population up to 150,000,000 people or a maximum of fifteen post . 
each member with a population above 150,000,000 would get one additional post for each additional 30,000,000 people up to an unspecified cut - off point . 
geneva , june 18 
-- the three leader of laos agree today to begin negotiation tomorrow on form a coalition government that would unite the war - ridden kingdom . 
the decision be make in zurich by prince boun oum , premier of the pro - western royal government ; ; 
prince souvanna phouma , leader of the nation 's neutralist and recognize as premier by the communist bloc , and prince souphanouvong , head of the pro - communist pathet lao force . 
the latter two be half - brother . 
-PRON- joint statement be welcome by the western delegation who will attend tomorrow the nineteenth plenary session of the fourteen - nation conference on the future of laos . 
an agreement among the prince on a coalition government would ease -PRON- task , diplomat concede . 
but no one be overly optimistic . 
tactic study in geneva 
w. averell harriman of the united states , malcolm macdonald of britain , maurice couve de murville , france 's foreign minister , and howard c. green , canada 's minister of external affairs , conclude , meanwhile , a round of consultation here on future tactic in the conference . 
the pace of the talk have slow with each pass week . 
princess moune , prince souvanna phouma 's young daughter , read the princes ' statement . 
-PRON- have a two - hour luncheon together in `` an atmosphere of cordial understanding and relaxation '' , -PRON- say . 
the three laotians agree upon a six - point agenda for -PRON- talk , which be to last three day . 
the princess say -PRON- be too early to say what would be decide if no agreement be reach after three day . 
to deal with principle 
the meeting in zurich , the statement say , would deal only with principle that would guide the three factor in -PRON- search for a coalition government . 
appointment of william s. pfaff jr. , 41 , as promotion manager of the times - picayune publishing company be announce saturday by john f. tims , president of the company . 
pfaff succeed martin burke , who resign . 
the new promotion manager have be employ by the company since january , 1946 , as a commercial artist in the advertising department . 
-PRON- be a native of new orleans and attend allen elementary school , fortier high school and soule business college . 
from june , 1942 , until december , 1945 , pfaff serve in the army air corps . 
while in the service -PRON- attend radio school at scott field in belleville , Illinois . 
before enter the service , pfaff for five year do clerical work with a general merchandising and wholesale firm in new orleans . 
-PRON- be married to the former audrey knecht and have a daughter , karol , 13 . 
-PRON- reside at 4911 miles dr. . 
washington 
-- thousand of bleacher - type seat be be erect along pennsylvania avenue between the capitol and the white house for the big inaugural parade on January 20 . 
assume the weather be halfway decent that day , hundred of thousand of person will mass along this thoroughfare as president john f. kennedy and retire president dwight d. eisenhower leave capitol hill follow the oath - take ceremony and ride down this historic ceremonial route . 
pennsylvania avenue , name for one of the original 13 state , perhaps be not the most impressive street in the district of columbia from a commercial standpoint . 
but from a historic viewpoint none can approach -PRON- . 
many building 
within view of the avenue be some of the united states government 's tremendous building , plus shrine and monument . 
of course , 1600 pennsylvania , the white house , be the most famous address of the free world . 
within an easy walk from capitol hill where pennsylvania avenue come together with constitution avenue , begin a series of great federal building , some a block long and all about seven - story high . 
great chapter of history have be record along the avenue , now about 169 year old . 
in the early spring of 1913 a few hundred thousand person turn out to watch 5000 woman parade . 
-PRON- be the suffragette and -PRON- want to vote . 
in the 1920 presidential election -PRON- have that right and many of -PRON- do vote for the first time . 
seat on square 
along this avenue which see march soldier from the war between the states return in 1865 be the national archives build where hundred of thousand of this country 's most valuable record be keep . 
also the department of justice building be locate where j. edgar hoover preside over the federal bureau of investigation . 
street car track run down the center of pennsylvania , power with line that be underground . 
many spectator will be occupy seat and vantage point border lafayette square , opposite the white house . 
in this historic square be several statue , but the one that stand out over the other be that of gen. andrew jackson , hero of the battle of new orleans . 
move past the presidential viewing stand and lafayette square will be at least 40 marching unit . 
about 16,000 military member of all branch of the armed force will take part in the parade . 
division one of the parade will be the service academy . 
division two will include the representation of massachusetts and texas , the respective state of the president and of vice - president l. b. johnson . 
then will come nine other state in the order of -PRON- admission to the union . 
division three will be head by the marines follow by 12 state ; ; 
division four will be head by the navy , follow by 11 state ; ; 
division five , by the air force follow by 11 state . 
division six will be head by the coast guard , follow by the reserve force of all service , five state , puerto rico , the virgin islands , guam , american samoa , the trust territory and the canal zone . 
jackson , Mississippi 
-- what do 1961 offer in political and governmental development in mississippi ? ? 
even for those who have be observe the political scene a long time , no script from the past be worth very much in gaze into the state 's immediate political future . 
this be largely because of the unpredictability of the man who operate the helm of the state government and be the elect leader of -PRON- two million inhabitant -- gov. ross barnett . 
barnett , who come into office with no previous experience in public administration , have surround -PRON- with confusion which not only keep -PRON- foe guess but -PRON- friend as well . 
consequently , -PRON- be uncertain after nearly 12 month in office just which direction the barnett administration will take in the coming year . 
could be scramble 
some predict the administration will settle down during 1961 and iron out the rough edge which -PRON- have have thus far . 
the builtin headache of the barnett regime thus far have be the steady stream of job - seeker and other who feel -PRON- be give commitment by barnett at some stage of -PRON- eight - year quest for the governor 's office . 
there be many who predict that should barnett decide to call the legislature back into special session , -PRON- will really throw -PRON- administration into a scramble . 
certainly nobody will predict that the next time the lawmaker come back together barnett will be able to enjoy a re - enactment of the strange but successful `` honeymoon '' -PRON- have in the 1960 legislative session . 
if barnett do not call a special session in 1961 , -PRON- will be the first year in the last decade that the legislature have not meet in regular or special session . 
the odd favor a special session , more than likely early in the year . 
district issue 
legislator always get restless for a special session ( whether for the companionship or the $ 22.50 per diem be not certain ) and if -PRON- start agitate . 
barnett be not expect to be able to withstand the pressure . 
the issue which may make -PRON- necessary to have a session be the highly sensitive problem of cut the state 's congressional district from six to five to eliminate one congressional seat . 
with eye focus on the third congressional district , the historic delta district , and congressman frank e. smith as the one most likely to go , the redistricting battle will put to a test the longstanding power which lawmaker from the delta have hold in the legislature . 
mississippi 's relation with the national democratic party will be at a crossroad during 1961 , with the first democratic president in eight year in the white house . 
split badly during the recent presidential election into almost equally divide camp of party loyalist and independent , the democratic party in mississippi be currently a wreck . 
and there have be no effort since the election to pull -PRON- back together . 
future clouded 
barnett , as the titular head of the democratic party , apparently must make the move to reestablish relation with the national democratic party or see a movement come from the loyalist rank to completely bypass -PRON- as a party functionary . 
with a democratic administration , party patronage would normally begin to flow to mississippi if -PRON- have hold -PRON- democratic solidarity in the november election . 
now , the picture be clouded , and even us sens . james o. eastland and john c. stennis , who remain loyal to the ticket , be uncertain of -PRON- status . 
report be that -PRON- be more than probable that the four congressman from mississippi who do not support the party ticket will be strip of the usual patronage which flow to congressman . 
baton rouge , Louisiana 
-- the gov. jimmie h. davis administration appear to face a difficult year in 1961 , with the governor 's theme of peace and harmony subject to severe stress . 
the year will probably start out with segregation still the most troublesome issue . 
but -PRON- may give way shortly to another vexing issue -- that of finance in state government . 
the transition from segregation to finance may already be in progress , in the form of an administration proposal to hike the state sale tax from 2 per cent to 3 per cent . 
the administration have say the sale tax proposal be merely part of the segregation strategy , since the revenue from the increase would be dedicate to a grant in aid program . 
but the tardiness of the administration in make the dedication have cause legislator to suspect the tax bill be relate more directly to an over - all shortage of cash than to segregation . 
legislator weary 
indeed , the administration 's curious position on the sale tax be a major factor in contribute to -PRON- defeat . 
the administration could not say why $ 28 million be need for a grant - in - aid program . 
the effectiveness of the governor in clear up some of the inconsistency revolve about the sale tax bill may play a part in determine whether -PRON- can muster the require two - third vote . 
the tax bill will be up for reconsideration wednesday in the house when the legislature reconvene . 
davis may use the tax bill as a means to effect a transition from special session of the legislature to normalcy . 
if -PRON- fail to pass , -PRON- can throw up -PRON- hand and say the legislature would not support -PRON- in -PRON- effort to prevent integration . 
-PRON- could terminate special session of the legislature . 
actually , davis would have to toss in the towel soon anyway . 
many legislator be already weary and frustrated over the so - far lose battle to block token integration . 
this be not the sort of thing most politico would care to acknowledge publicly . 
-PRON- would like to convey the notion something be be do , even though -PRON- be something -PRON- know to be ineffectual . 
underlie concern 
passage of the sale tax measure would also give davis the mean to effect a transition . 
-PRON- could tell the legislature -PRON- have provide the need fund to carry on the battle . 
then -PRON- could tell -PRON- to go home , while the administration continue to wage the battle with the $ 28 million in extra revenue the sale tax measure would bring in over an eight month period . 
-PRON- be difficult to be certain how the administration view that $ 28 million , since the view of one leader may not be the same as the view of another one . 
but if the administration should find -PRON- do not need the $ 28 million for a grant - in - aid program , a not unlikely conclusion , -PRON- could very well seek a way to use the money for other purpose . 
this would be in perfect consonance with the underlie concern in the administration -- the shortage of cash . 
-PRON- could become an acute problem in the come fiscal year . 
if the administration do not succeed in pass the sale tax bill , or any other tax bill , -PRON- could very well be face this spring at the fiscal session of the legislature with an interesting dilemma . 
since the constitution forbid introduction of a tax bill at a fiscal session , the administration will either have to cut down expense or inflate -PRON- estimate of anticipated revenue . 
constant problem 
in either case , -PRON- could call a special session of the legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raise additional revenue through a tax raiser . 
the prospect of cut back spending be an unpleasant one for any governor . 
-PRON- be one that most try to avoid , as long as -PRON- can see an alternative approach to the problem . 
but if all alternative should be clearly block off , -PRON- can be expect the davis administration will take step to trim spending at the spring session of the state legislature . 
this may be do to arouse those who have be squeeze out by the trim to exert pressure on the legislature , so -PRON- would be more receptive to a tax proposal later in the year . 
a constant problem confront davis on any proposal for new tax will be the charge by -PRON- foe that -PRON- have not try to economize . 
any tax bill also will revive allegation that some of -PRON- follower have be use -PRON- administration affiliation imprudently to profit -PRON- . 
the new year may see some house - cleaning , either genuine or token , depend upon development , to give davis an opportunity to combat some of these criticism . 
city controller alexander hemphill charge tuesday that the bid on the frankford elevated repair project be rig to the advantage of a private contracting company which have `` an inside track '' with the city . 
estimate of the city 's loss in the $ 344,000 job have range as high as $ 200,000 . 
shortcut unnoticed 
hemphill say that the hughes steel erection co. contract to do the work at an impossibly low cost with a bid that be far less than the `` legitimate '' bid of compete contractor . 
the hughes concern then take `` shortcut '' on the project but get pay anyway , hemphill say . 
the controller 's charge of rigging be the late development in an investigation which also bring these disclosure tuesday : 
the city have sue for the full amount of the $ 172,400 performance bond cover the contract . 
the philadelphia transportation co. be investigate the part -PRON- organization play in review the project . 
the signature of harold v. varani , former director of architecture and engineering in the department of public property , appear on payment voucher certify work on the project . 
varani have be fire on charge of accept gift from the contractor . 
manage director donald c. wagner have agree to cooperate fully with hemphill after a period of sharp disagreement on the matter . 
the announcement that the city would sue for recovery on the performance bond be make by city solicitor david berger at a press conference follow a meeting in the morning with wagner and other official of the city and the ptc as well as representative of an engineering firm that be pull off the el project before -PRON- completion in 1959 . 
concern bankrupt 
the hughes company and the consolidated industries , inc. , both of 3646 n. 2d st. , file for reorganization under the federal bankruptcy law . 
on monday , the hughes concern be formally declare bankrupt after -PRON- director indicate -PRON- could not draw up a plan for reorganization . 
business relation between the company and city have be under investigation by hemphill and district attorney james c. crumlish , jr. . 
intervene in case 
the suit be file later in the day in common pleas court 7 against the hughes company and two bonding firm . 
travelers indemnity co. and the continental casualty co. . 
at berger 's direction , the city also intervene in the hughes bankruptcy case in u. s. district court in a move preliminary to file a claim there . 
`` -PRON- be take the position that the contract be clearly violate '' , berger say . 
the contract violation mostly involve failure to perform rehabilitation work on expansion joint along the el track . 
the contract call for overhauling of 102 joint . 
the city pay for work on 75 , of which no more than 21 be repair , hemphill charge . 
wide range in bid 
hemphill say the hughes concern contract to do the repair at a cost of $ 500 for each joint . 
the bid from a. belanger and sons of cambridge , Massachusetts , which list the same officer as hughes , be $ 600 per joint . 
but , hemphill add , bid from other contractor range from $ 2400 to $ 3100 per joint . 
berger 's decision to sue for the full amount of the performance bond be question by wagner in the morning press conference . 
wagner say the city pay only $ 37,500 to the hughes company . 
`` -PRON- will not know the full amount until -PRON- get a full report '' , wagner say . 
`` -PRON- can claim on the maximum amount of the bond '' , berger say . 
wagner reply , `` can not -PRON- just see the headline : ' city hook for $ 172,000 ' '' ? ? 
' know enough to sue ' 
berger insist that `` -PRON- know enough to sue for the full amount '' . 
douglas m. pratt , president of the ptc , who attend the meeting , say the transit company be review the work on the el . 
`` -PRON- want to find out who know about -PRON- '' , pratt say . 
`` certain people must have know about -PRON- '' . 
`` the ptc be investigate the whole matter '' , pratt say . 
samuel d. goodis , represent the philadelphia hotel association , object on tuesday to a propose boost by the city in licensing fee , say that occupancy rate in major hotel here range from 48 to 74 percent last year . 
goodis voice -PRON- objection before city council 's finance committee . 
for hotel with 1000 room , the increase license fee would mean an expense of $ 5000 a year , goodis say . 
testifie at hearing 
-PRON- testimony come during a hearing on a bill raise fee for a wide variety of license , permit and city service . 
the new fee be expect to raise an additional $ 740,000 in the remainder of 1961 and $ 2,330,000 more a year after that . 
the ordinance would increase the fee for room house , hotel and multi - family dwelling to $ 5 a room . 
the cost of a license now be $ 2 , with an annual renewal fee of $ 1 . 
goodis say that single room account for 95 percent of the accomodation in some hotel . 
revenue estimate 
the city expect the high room house , hotel and apartment house fee to bring in an additional $ 457,000 a year . 
the increase also be oppose by leonard kaplan , spokesman for the home builders association of philadelphia , on behalf of association member who operate apartment house . 
a proposal to raise dog license fee draw an objection from councilwoman virginia knauer , who formerly raise pedigreed dog . 
the ordinance would increase fee from $ 1 for male and $ 2 for female to a flat $ 5 a dog . 
commissioner reply 
mrs. knauer say -PRON- do not think dog owner should be penalize for the city 's service to animal care . 
in reply , deputy police commissioner howard r. leary say that the city spend more than $ 115,000 annually to license and regulate dog but collect only $ 43,000 in fee . 
-PRON- report that the city 's contribution for animal care include $ 67,000 to the women 's s.p.c.a. ; ; 
$ 15,000 to pay six policeman assign as dog catcher and $ 15,000 to investigate dog bite . 
back high fee 
city finance director richard j. mcconnell indorse the high fee , which , -PRON- say , have be under study for more than a year . 
the city be not adequately compensate for the service cover by the fee , -PRON- say . 
the new fee schedule also be support by commissioner of licenses and inspections barnet lieberman and health commissioner eugene a. gillis . 
petition ask for a jail term for norristown attorney julian w. barnard will be present to the montgomery county court friday , -PRON- be disclose tuesday by horace a. davenport , counsel for the widow of the man kill last November 1 by barnard 's hit - run car . 
the petition will be present in open court to president judge william f. dannehower , davenport say . 
barnard , who plead no defense to manslaughter and hit - run charge , be fin $ 500 by judge warren k. hess , and place on two year ' probation provide -PRON- do not drive during that time . 
-PRON- be catch drive the day after the sentence be pronounce and give a warning . 
victim of the accident be robert lee stansbery , 39 . 
-PRON- widow start the circulation of petition after barnard be reprimand for violate the probation . 
the city planning commission on tuesday approve agreement between two redeveloper and the redevelopment authority for the purchase of land in the $ 300,000,000 eastwick redevelopment area project . 
the commission also approve a novel plan that would eliminate traffic hazard for pedestrian in the project . 
one of the agreement call for the new eastwick corp. to purchase a 1311 acre tract for $ 12,192,865 . 
the tract be bound by island ave . , dicks ave . , 61st st. , and eastwick ave . . 
four park plan 
-PRON- be designate as stage 1 residential on the redevelopment authority 's master plan and will feature row house , garden apartment , four small park , school , church , a shopping center and several small cluster of store . 
the corporation be form by the reynolds metal co. and the samuel a. and henry a. berger firm , a philadelphia builder , for work in the project . 
the second agreement permit the authority to sell a 520-acre tract west of stage 1 residential to philadelphia builders eastwick corp. , a firm compose of 10 philadelphia area builder , which be interested in develop part of the project . 
would bar vehicle 
the plan for eliminate traffic hazard for pedestrian be develop by dr. constantinos a. doxiadis , former minister of reconstruction in greece and a consult planner for the new eastwick corp. . 
the plan call for divide the project into 16 sector which would be bar to vehicular traffic . 